# Application-Rollout-on-K8s
There has long been the tension between the large amount of deployed Kubernetes clusters and the complex application rollout process on these clusters, making application development and release extremely slow.

The [Rancher Fleet](https://fleet.rancher.io/) project cracks the problem on the cluster management side, while the issues relevant to application management are left unresolved. This application, based on Rancher Fleet, provides a holistic solution to application rollout on Kubernetes clusters.

## What makes a difference from Rancher Fleet?
* **The concept of Service.** Considering big applications comprising several GitHub repositories, we define a Service, represented by one repository, as a component of an Application. We can define a service dependency map to specify the dependency relationships among services to ensure that any rollout process always rolls out a service after all the services it depends on have been rolled out successfully.
* **Changeable cluster labels.** Using Rancher Fleet, once a cluster's label is defined while installing a fleet agent on the cluster, the label is fixed and not subject to changes later. This causes great inconveniences as the grouping of clusters can vary frequently in real-life scenarios. In our application, this problem is resolved by making cluster labels changeable.
* **Visualized rollout experience.** With Rancher Fleet, the rollout experience of an application is by specifying image version and committing a change to GitHub and wait for clusters to align with their corresponding metadata on GitHub. To check whether the cluster is updated, a user has to manually check deployment details a few times using kubectl. With our application, the rollout process is consisted of two steps: set a rollout plan, and create a rollout process. A user specify the version they prefer to roll out to while setting the plan. After a rollout process, the user will be clearly notified which service of the application is being rolled out and the deployment status of each cluster involved. The user can also check the rollout history to fetch the details of each rollout.
* **Simplified operations.** The steps of deploying Rancher Fleet is quite confusing in spite of its official documentation. Following the steps requires some background knowledge in Helm and kubectl operations. While in this applicaion, these steps are completed by scripts, a user does not need to operate anything with kubectl. Rather, a single defined command can do the job.
